# Asteroids
This is a simple clone of the classic arcade game, Asteroids. This was built in Pygame off of a tutorial on Boot.dev. Several changes were made beyond the coverage of the tutorial
## Changes
### Polygons Over Circles
I didn't like the pure circle representation of the asteroids themselves. So I decided to experiment with making them a little lumpy. There were a few iterations of this, but in order to make them irregular while also realistic looking (no star shapes), I needed to generate the asteroid's surface a Fourier-like series in polar coordinates and then convert the vertices to a Cartesian body frame. I put together a harmonic series generator that stacks waves together with increasing frequency and decreasing amplitude + some random phase shift between 0 and 2pi radians. This was the best way I could represent how waves and harmoic series function in the real world. I won't go too deep into the math, but there are a couple of transformations applied to avoid some symmetry and noise issues with wave functions (see Greatest Common Divisors and Pink Noise). I then needed to translate these body frame coordinates to the inertial frame of the screen by multiplying the body coordinates by the 2D rotation matrix.
### Bombs And Explosions
The player can drop bombs using the "c" key. The bomb will slowly drift out of the back of the player ship and then detonate. For the explosion, I used the same harmonic series generator from the asteroids, but I wanted it to explode like a fireball (suspending the vacuum of space for a moment, here). This required several changes. The first was building a closed-loop proportional controller (P-Controller) to govern the expansion radius. Much like in robotics, this allowed me to start with a rapid expansion from the initial explosion that tapers off as the error gets smaller and smaller (until it reaches a defined threshold). The second is creating more of a boil effect on the explosion. For this, I needed to add a time-dependent phase shift to the harmonic series by taking the time accumulation and multiplying this by an angular frequency from the wave function (by repurposing the randomized `phase_shift` variable). This gave a pretty convincing violent explosion.
### Efficient Collision Detection (WIP)
In the tutorial, we calculated collision by looping over every asteroid, and then looping over every possible collision item (player, shots, bombs, explosions). Given the limited number of objects on the screen with modern computing, this will likely never become an issue, but just looking at it hurts (O(n**2)). Since the game exists entirely on a stationary 2D screen, a quadtree seemed the most effective approach. By recursively subdividing the space into four quadrants, the collision detection only needs to calculate distance for objects occupying the same node, which drastically reduces the total calculations needed. This is still being implemented.
### World Wrap
Probably the simplest addition was allowing the player and the asteroids to wrap around the world. For the player, this is a simple modulo to the screen dimensions to determine if the player is out of bounds. For the asteroids, since they are generated at the edges of the screen, this required determining if more than half of the asteroid was out of bounds.
### Scoring
I implemented a simple scoring system where the smaller the asteroid, the higher the point return, and then a simple drawing of the score on the screen. The score is tied to the return value of the split() method on the asteroid. So anytime an asteroid is hit, this is added to the score value. There are definitely more robust ways to handle scoring (tying score to player actions), but I can always ignore the return value if some later functionality should not add to the score value.
